{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Prologue\par
\par
Year: 304 BCE\par
Place: Valley of the Eurotas, near Sparta, Laconia\par
Season: Late Summer, Dusk\par
The hills of Laconia blushed red beneath the sinking sun, their rugged peaks casting long shadows across the valley. The villa of the Drakon family stood proud on the bank of the Eurotas, its stone walls weathered by time yet strong as the men who lived within. Olive trees bent in the evening breeze, and the air smelled of dust, pine, and the iron tang of spearheads drying after the day\rquote s training.\par
\par
Inside the courtyard, a family gathered.\par
\par
Quillian, fifteen, tall for his years, swung a practice spear against the wooden post. His arms burned, but he struck again, driven by the eyes of his father watching from the colonnade. His hair\f1\emdash red as embers\emdash stuck damp to his brow, his chest rising and falling with the rhythm of youth eager to prove itself.\par
\par
His sister Selene, younger by two years, sat on the steps weaving wildflowers into her braid. She shared her brother\rquote s fiery hair, though hers fell long, catching the light like a banner. Her face, delicate but sharp, bore her mother\rquote s beauty but her father\rquote s gaze\emdash steady, unflinching, seeing more than she let on.\par
\par
Their father, Cassian Drakon, was a figure carved from war itself. His scarred cheek told of battles fought and survived, his broad shoulders carried the weight of Spartan command. As head of the army, his word was law among soldiers, yet here, among his family, his silence carried warmth rather than iron.\par
\par
And beside him, the heart of their home\emdash Valeria Aemiliana. Draped in simple linen though she could have worn the robes of a queen, her presence outshone all. Her red hair shimmered like molten copper in the dying light, her every movement touched by a grace too perfect for mortal origin. Few knew her truth\emdash that beneath this name and guise lived the goddess Venus, love incarnate, walking the earth as a mother, a wife, a secret guardian.\par
\par
The world saw a general\rquote s household. But in truth, this was a hearth where mortal strength and divine beauty had entwined, shaping children who bore both fire and starlight in their veins.\par
\par
Quillian lowered his spear at last, sweat running down his temple.\par
\par
\ldblquote Did I strike true, Father?\rdblquote  he asked, voice firm though youth still clung to it.\par
\par
Cassian\rquote s scarred lips curved faintly.\par
\par
\ldblquote A Spartan does not ask if he strikes true. He knows. But you will learn.\rdblquote\par
\par
Selene smirked, tucking a flower into her braid.\par
\par
\ldblquote He asks because he doubts. And doubt is heavier than any shield.\rdblquote\par
\par
Their mother\rquote s laughter, soft as music, silenced the courtyard. Valeria stepped forward, placing a hand on each child\rquote s shoulder.\par
\par
\ldblquote\f0 Strength, wisdom\'85 both are needed. And both will be tested.\f1\rdblquote\par
\par
The sun slipped behind the hills, and shadows deepened. The torches were lit one by one, their flames dancing on the stone. In that flickering light, the family of Drakon stood together\emdash unaware of how swiftly time would scatter them, how the choices of gods and men alike would forge Quillian\rquote s path into legend.\par
\par
For now, they were only a father, a mother, a son, and a daughter.\par
But history was already listening.\f0\lang1033  The clang of bronze shattered the quiet as the villa gates opened. A soldier stumbled into the courtyard, helm tucked beneath his arm, sweat shining on his face. He dropped to one knee before Cassian.\par
\par
\ldblquote General, messengers bring word from the north. Rome marches\f1\emdash faster than we expected.\rdblquote\par
\par
The torches hissed in the breeze, their flames bending. Cassian\rquote s eyes narrowed, his silence weighing heavier than words. At last, his voice came low and even.\par
\par
\ldblquote How many?\rdblquote\par
\par
\ldblquote Too many for the border garrisons to delay. Their scouts were sighted near Megalopolis at dawn.\rdblquote\par
\par
Valeria\rquote s gaze rose to the sky, her copper hair gilded in firelight. To all others she was only wife and mother, but beneath her disguise the goddess stirred uneasily, hearing the tremor of fate moving.\par
\par
Quillian\rquote s hand clenched around his practice spear. He was fifteen, yet the name Rome struck like iron in his chest.\par
\par
\ldblquote Will they come here?\rdblquote  Selene\rquote s voice wavered, softer than the cicadas in the night.\par
\par
Cassian set his scarred hand upon her shoulder. \ldblquote If they do, we will meet them as Spartans always have\emdash shield to shield, spear to spear, fire in our blood.\rdblquote\par
\par
The soldier bowed, then disappeared into the darkness. The courtyard grew still again, broken only by the rasp of the river and the whisper of pines.\par
\par
Valeria crossed to her son, her hand cool against his flushed cheek. Her eyes, lit by the torch glow, carried something beyond mortal measure\emdash sorrow, pride, and a love that seemed to stretch beyond the earth itself.\par
\par
\ldblquote Remember this night, my son,\rdblquote  she whispered. \ldblquote The world is changing. And you will be called to stand where even kings falter.\rdblquote\par
\par
Above them, the first stars cut through the dusk. The family of Drakon lingered together in the courtyard, unknowing that this would be their last night in peace.\par
\par
That night the villa fell silent. The cicadas quieted, the hearth burned low, and one by one the Drakon household slipped into slumber. Cassian lay heavy with the weight of war ahead. Quillian and Selene slept side by side, dreaming innocent dreams that would never come again.\par
\par
But Valeria did not rest.\par
\par
When the torches guttered out, she rose from the bed and stepped into the courtyard, her linen robe stirring in the night air. She knelt before the altar of the household gods, her fiery hair loose about her shoulders, and raised her hands toward the heavens.\par
\par
\ldblquote Father of Olympus,\rdblquote  she whispered, voice trembling. \ldblquote Protector of Sparta. Hear me. The storm gathers. If ever you favored me, favor now my husband, my children, this land.\rdblquote\par
\par
But no voice answered. The night was still. The stars gave no sign.\par
\par
A different presence stirred.\par
\par
The shadows lengthened, though no torch burned. The air grew heavy, almost sweet with the scent of smoke and iron. From the far side of the courtyard, where the darkness pooled thickest, a figure stepped forward\emdash tall, regal, terrible.\par
\par
\ldblquote Zeus does not hear you, Valeria,\rdblquote  the voice said, smooth as a serpent\rquote s coil. \ldblquote He never did.\rdblquote\par
\par
Her breath caught. \ldblquote You.\rdblquote\par
\par
The figure smiled, eyes glowing faintly red beneath the night sky. \ldblquote Call me what your kind wills\emdash Phosphoros, Heosphoros, bearer of light. The Romans will come to call me Lucifer. But you, once, called me beloved.\rdblquote\par
\par
She rose, trembling with fury. \ldblquote That was long ago. A mistake.\rdblquote\par
\par
He tilted his head, studying her with something between tenderness and cruelty. \ldblquote A mistake? You thought so the night you yielded to me? The night we lay beneath the cypress trees by the Eurotas, when even the stars seemed to burn brighter for envy? You left me, Venus. You left me with the taste of your lips and nothing more.\rdblquote\par
\par
Valeria\rquote s eyes blazed. \ldblquote I chose the world of men. I chose love that is mortal, fleeting, true. Not your endless hunger.\rdblquote\par
\par
He stepped closer, his voice lowering. \ldblquote And yet, you bore my son. Did you think I would never know? You disappeared from me, heavy with child, and I never saw him. Never touched him. My blood walking this earth without my name.\rdblquote\par
\par
Her lips parted, but no denial came. The goddess of love, shaken.\par
\par
Lucifer\rquote s smile deepened, cruel and aching at once. \ldblquote Your husband will fall. The day has come for reckoning. And when he lies cold, you will stand by me once more. As you always should have.\rdblquote\par
\par
Valeria turned sharply, her robe snapping in the wind, and stormed back inside. But behind her, in the courtyard heavy with silence, Lucifer remained.\par
\par
He tilted his head back to the stars, remembering the warmth of her skin, the night they once shared, the secret she thought lost forever.\par
\par
And in the stillness of that Spartan night, the thought lingered like a flame that would not die: somewhere, his son walked among men.\f0  Dawn broke golden over the valley, spilling light across the olive groves and painting the Eurotas like a river of fire. The villa stirred to life\f1\emdash the smell of bread baking, the soft murmur of servants, Cassian sharpening his sword on the steps as Quillian trained in the courtyard once more. Selene laughed as she chased a dove through the garden, her mother\rquote s smile bright as the morning sun.\par
\par
The peace lasted no longer than the breath it took to enjoy it.\par
\par
Without warning, the heavy doors of the villa shuddered, then burst inward in a thunder of splintered wood and bronze. Roman soldiers poured through, shields gleaming, spears bristling, their sandals pounding the stone like a war drum.\par
\par
Selene screamed as rough hands seized her by the hair, dragging her toward the shadows of the hall. Cassian was on his feet in an instant, scarred hand closing around his spear. He drove it clean through the throat of the first soldier to reach him, wrenching it free as blood sprayed the courtyard stones.\par
\par
Another Roman lunged, and Cassian swung the shaft sideways, shattering the man\rquote s jaw with the iron butt. A third soldier rushed in\emdash Cassian ripped the sword from his dying hands and split his skull in one furious blow.\par
\par
Another fell, skull split by the edge of his sword. A third staggered back with entrails spilling as Cassian roared, blood spattering his face, his children\rquote s names tearing from his throat.\par
\par
But then his body faltered. His arm stiffened, his eyes widened in sudden pain, as though unseen chains clamped around him. Among the Romans, one soldier moved differently\emdash his gaze burning, his strikes impossibly fast. Cassian lunged, only to meet a strength beyond mortal flesh.\par
\par
Valeria\rquote s cry broke the air. She saw it\emdash Lucifer, hidden within the body of a soldier, his presence twisting the man\rquote s limbs with unnatural fury. \ldblquote Cassian!\rdblquote  she screamed, voice splitting.\par
\par
The general fought like ten men, driving back the possessed legionary, but the force was too great. A spear drove deep beneath his ribs, another slashed across his throat. Cassian dropped to his knees, blood running hot down his chest. His eyes met Quillian\rquote s one last time, fierce and proud, before the light faded from them forever.\par
\par
Quillian charged with a shout that split the air, his spear flashing in the rising sun. He struck at the soldier whose movements carried a presence beyond men, the one whose eyes glowed faintly in the torchlight. Their weapons clashed with a force that rang like iron thunder.\par
\par
\f0 For a heartbeat, Lucifer staggered inside the mortal shell he wore. This boy\'85 this child\'85 his strikes were wild, untrained, yet filled with a fury that was not mortal. The goddess\f1\rquote s fire burned in his veins. Each blow Quillian dealt drove Lucifer back a step, sparks leaping as steel crashed against bronze.\par
\par
\f0 This one is not like the others, Lucifer thought, his smile thinning. This one carries her blood\'85 her fury.\f1\par
\par
Quillian roared again, the strength of desperation in his limbs. He nearly forced the dark presence to his knees, a child challenging the Prince of Morning himself.\par
\par
But then, unseen behind him, another Roman soldier closed in. Steel slid between Quillian\rquote s ribs, the blade tearing fire through his chest. His body jolted in shock, his spear slipping from his hand, clattering to the stone as the world blurred red and black.\par
\par
Lucifer\rquote s gaze froze on him for an instant\emdash eyes narrowing as if the thought of blood and lineage hovered on his tongue. Then the boy fell, limp, his strength gone. The spark vanished, and with it any dangerous stirring in Lucifer\rquote s heart.\par
\par
Whatever momentary wonder he had felt was gone, crushed like embers beneath his heel. He turned sharply, no longer sparing Quillian a glance. His focus locked instead on Valeria, struggling against her bonds, her cry echoing through the courtyard.\par
\par
And in the smoke and ruin of that morning, Lucifer left without hesitation, his thoughts of the boy drowned beneath his hunger for the goddess.\f0  When the Romans had gone, silence fell over Laconia. No song of birds, no whisper of the river\f1\emdash only the stench of blood and the stillness of death. The Drakon villa lay in ruin, its stones blackened, its halls littered with broken bodies. Every man had been cut down where he stood.\par
\par
But among the fallen, one life still lingered.\par
\par
Quillian lay sprawled in the dust, the spear-wound in his side dark with dried blood. His eyes fluttered, lips parted in a soundless gasp. He reached for breath that would not come, for a heartbeat he could not feel. Death had claimed him\emdash yet death did not keep him.\par
\par
Something stirred deep inside, a fire older than his father\rquote s line, older than Sparta itself. It moved through his veins like molten iron, searing away pain, binding torn flesh, calling him back.\par
\par
With a shudder, he drew in a ragged breath. His chest heaved. The gash at his ribs closed, the blood dried, and the ache was gone. He pushed himself upright, trembling, his hands smeared in the dust of the dead.\par
\par
Quillian staggered to his feet, staring at his body in disbelief. The wound was gone, the pain only a memory. His heart still did not beat, yet he stood alive, stronger, colder, something within him changed forever.\par
\par
At first he thought it must be a dream\emdash but the truth lay all around him. The courtyard was littered with corpses: soldiers, servants, kin. Flies already gathered. The smell of iron choked the air.\par
\par
And there, among them, was his father. Cassian Drakon, the lion of Sparta, lay still at last, his scarred face pale, eyes closed in eternal rest. No god had spared him.\par
\par
Quillian dropped to his knees, his hands shaking as they clutched the blood-soaked earth. His throat burned, but no tears came. His mother was gone. His sister gone. Only he remained.\par
\par
The boy who had died rose again\emdash something more, something less. And as he gazed at the ruin of all he loved, he felt the first shadow of the destiny that would follow him from that day forward.\f0  Quillian knelt beside his father\rquote s body, the weight of silence pressing down upon him. His hands curled into fists; he pressed his nails into his palms until his skin stung, but no red came\f1\emdash only a pale, cold ache where flesh met bone. He laid one hand on Cassian\rquote s chest, feeling the stillness beneath the armor, and lowered his forehead until it touched the scarred metal.\par
\par
\ldblquote Father,\rdblquote  he whispered, voice raw against the night air. \ldblquote You fought with the strength of ten, and still they struck you down. You told me a Spartan never doubts. But I doubt now\emdash I doubt the gods who let this happen. I doubt the justice of this world.\rdblquote\par
\par
His voice grew harder, colder, as whatever had awoken in him gathered like iron in his veins.\par
\ldblquote But I do not doubt this. I will find them. I will find Rome, I will find the ones who took Mother and Selene. I will carve my vengeance into their flesh until their screams are heard in Olympus itself.\rdblquote\par
\par
He rose then, standing tall among the dead, eyes bright with a light that was not warmth. There was no pulse to steady him, no flood of blood to mark his grief\emdash only a stillness that made his vow sound like a blade in the air.\par
\par
\ldblquote I swear it by your name, by this land, and by Sparta,\rdblquote  he said. \ldblquote I will not rest. I will not falter. I will see them broken. This I swear.\rdblquote\par
\par
The wind rose, rattling the olives, and his words went out into the night. The gods gave no answer\emdash but the earth seemed to listen.\par
\par
He stood alone amid the ruin, the last ember of his family\rquote s house gone cold. The boy was gone. In his place stood something new\emdash something forged of grief, iron, and a vow that would not bleed away.\f0  Perfect \f1\emdash  I\rquote ll keep your passage intact and weave in the changes you wanted: Quillian\rquote s uncanny strength and healed wounds (which he doesn\rquote t fully understand), his quiet recognition of the change, and how he uses it to slip into the slavers\rquote  column. I\rquote ve kept your original lines where possible and only altered/added the necessary parts.\par
\par
---\par
\par
Quillian hauled himself up the rough flank of the hill, each footfall a slow, deliberate bite into stone and scrub. The world below lay open like a map\emdash ruined roofs, dark ribbons of smoke rising from the village, and the long, grey line of the road that led away from Laconia toward the coast. He climbed until the villa was a smudge among trees and the valley spread wide beneath him; from that height the slaughtered courtyard looked impossibly small, as if the world had been emptied by a careless god.\par
\par
When he reached the wind-bleached summit, he stood hunched against the cold and looked farther than any Spartan had reason to look that morning. The air was thin and bitter; the olives below whispered secrets he could not yet hear. His eyes swept the plains and the gullied tracks, and there\emdash where the road widened into a dusty plain\emdash he saw them: a knot of men moving with practiced efficiency. Slavers, by the way they handled ropes and chained wrists, by the lean, greedy coordination of their scouts. Around them, a scatter of living figures\emdash women and children clustered together, guarded, their heads bowed; a few Spartan soldiers lay propped against wagon wheels, bleeding and groaning, bandaged clumsily by frightened hands.\par
\par
Something like a cold, bright instrument slid through Quillian\rquote s chest and settled there: calculation, sharper even than grief. He watched how the slavers sorted the taken\emdash young women set aside, a handful of able-bodied men separated and bound to the carts. He watched how the wounded were left, heavily guarded but alive. The caravan smelled of sweat and oil and business; they were not raiders of madness but traders of bodies, already thinking of profit in Rome.\par
\par
For a long moment he only watched, counting, measuring distances, imagining paths down the slope that would keep him hidden. The thought came slow and sure: he would follow them. He would go with their column, learn their routes, listen where they slept, watch for names and faces. If his mother and sister were bound among these captives\emdash if their ropes led to Rome\emdash then the only way to find them might be to walk the same road as their captors.\par
\par
He could have let himself collapse, could have lain in the ruins until hunger or wolves finished him. But whatever had risen in him from that black dawn would not permit surrender. He had no warmth in his blood to make tears, no pulse to soothe his bones\emdash but he had a will that hardened like cooled iron.\par
\par
Quillian descended the mountain by a narrow goat track, keeping to shadow, letting the wind hide his approach. He smeared ash on his face to dull the shine of his hair, wrapped a torn tunic around his chest to hide the clean lines of the warrior he had once been, and gathered a length of rope from the roots of a juniper\emdash an improvised tool, a promise.\par
\par
When he reached the plain the slavers were already moving, loading cages and untying beasts. A pair of strays nosed the ground; a child whimpered softly beneath a wagon. Quillian crouched behind a stand of thornbushes and watched their leader\emdash a broad-shouldered man with a cruel mouth and a silver tooth\emdash counting the tally.\par
\par
He let the caravan pass within three spear-lengths of his hiding place, then slipped out with the deliberate calm of a man who has nothing left to lose. Something in him felt different as he moved: the memory of the blade between his ribs had become a hollow ache, not the burning collapse he expected. When he flexed his fingers the stinging was gone; when he tested a fallen branch, he lifted it with one hand as if it were a reed. He should have been slow and sore, but instead his limbs answered like new cords pulled tight. He did not know why\emdash only that the change was a tool and he would use it.\par
\par
He would speak to them as one of the lost: a ragged young man with a story of capture and no home. He would offer his strength for coin or promise, attach himself to their ropes, and move toward Rome on the same dusty trail their captives would be forced to follow. Whatever he had become, he would make it work for him.\par
\par
As he fell into step behind them, the valley closed behind him like a shuttered room. He carried no sword\emdash only the echo of a vow, the cold absence where blood should be, and the single, unarguable purpose that now guided him: to find the women taken from his house and to drag whatever remained of his world back into the light.\par
}
 